1> What is a Database? Explain with an example on why should we need a database?

Ans:-  Database is a storage place where we store the collection of stuructured data which can be Accessed , managed, and updated  . 
          example:- Think about a e-commerce website if the database is not there how complex is storing data will be for each product .


2> Write a short note on File base storage system. Explain the major challenges of a File-based storage system?

Ans:- File based storage system are the basic and first of type of storage system . It is basic file stururcture system where each thing are stored in seprate files without any centralized control.

The major challenge of FBSS are redundency, user limit, data duplicacy, etc. 

3> What is DBMS? What was the need for DBMS?

Ans:- Dbms stands for database management system . The dbms helps us to store the data in organized way using their programmable interface. also helps to retrieve, modify and update the data using the programmable interface.It solves problems of redundancy, data inconsistency, and makes data management easier and secure.

5> Explain 5 challenges of file-based storage system which was tackled by DBMS?

Ans:- The 5 challenges of file-based storage system are redundancy, data inconsistency, duplicacy, user limit, no data relationship

6> What is the significance of Data Modelling and explain the types of data modeling?

Ans:- Data modeling helps in structuring and organizing data for better storage, access, and efficiency in a database.

Types:

Conceptual – High-level, shows what data is stored.

Logical – Detailed, defines structure like tables, columns.

Physical – Shows how data is actually stored in the syste


7> Explain 3 schema architecture along with its advantages.

Ans:- 3-schema architecture divides DBMS into three layers to separate user views from physical storage.

External Schema – User view; custom views for different users.
✅ Advantage: Security and personalized access.

Conceptual Schema – Logical structure of the whole database.
✅ Advantage: Centralized and consistent data model.

Internal Schema – Physical storage structure.
✅ Advantage: Efficient data storage and retrieval.